do you want to learn the secrets when it
comes to mastering Cod email for B2B
then stay
tuned I'm Sam Dunning owner over at Sam
Dunning org and if you want to grab my
free B2B marketing playbooks podcasts or
whenever you're ready to work with me
head over to
sd.org so joining me today I've got Jay
Feldman he is the owner over otter PR
and you got to check him out on YouTube
it's lead Jen J we're going to talk
about the secrets when it comes to
mastering btb codos we diving into
things like does it actually work today
how does it Stack Up compared to other
inbound outbound or even demand
generation channels can Cod email work
for any B2B Tech or service based
organization and a bit of a step by step
so if you're new to codl or if you're a
seasoned Pro you'll get some useful
pointers from starting from from scratch
right through to using it to deliver
meetings for yourself or your sales team
so with that in mind Jay Feldman welcome
to the show sir how are we doing really
good it's morning here great to great to
be here with you Sam talking to other
marketers excited to jam on some lead
generation I'm excited to give some
value to the audience excellent excited
to dive in sir so let's get straight
into it we don't beat around the bush
here cold emo I I've only got a flick on
to LinkedIn Jay and I've got one person
say person saying C 's dead the next
person saying is okay and the third
person saying it's alive and well and
delivering meetings it's h how does it
actually Stack Up kind of 20124 moving
forward in your
opinion 2024 cold email is stronger than
ever especially with the way that AI is
being integrated into cold email
everybody is taking this for granted uh
but yeah there's massive scare in the
cold email Community as well right now
as there usually is uh the new scare
right now is that Google and Yahoo are
releasing releasing an update in the
coming months that is going to decrease
the spam threshold how many emails can
be marked as spam out of a thousand to
0.3% uh and that's scaring a lot of
email marketers but there's a lot of
falsities to that as well so in my
opinion cold email is going strong uh a
lot of the fear that's out there around
cold email is not actually for B2B cold
email it's for b2c cold email and I'm
sure we'll jump into that but it's alive
and well AI is making it more powerful
than ever and it's booking more meetings
for us than it ever has before yeah yeah
yeah and for anyone that that's not that
aware of the uh issues that were flagged
recently with Google and Outlook what
does that what does that mean exactly
and how do you think that will impact
cold
email so there's good cold emailers and
there's bad cold emailers we call them
spammers and everybody knows what I'm
talking about so cold email the the
power to it and why it's so popular is
is because it's so cheap to send emails
at scale and to get email addresses to
send them to so you can wield that for
good or you can wield that for evil and
if you send just shotgun approach
millions of emails across across the web
to everybody who has an email address
that's a problem that's spamming that is
not good marketing so the updates but
the coming updates from Google are
targeted to reduce that to stop the spam
on the consumer end on the B Toc end it
is not designed to stop B2B called email
and the reason we know that is the out
the inboxes that have gmail.com or
yahoo.com at the end are really going to
be the ones with those protective
filters right I was reading something
the other day and this could be
completely off base but if like a couple
people receive one of your code emails
and they go onto that email system be it
on Gmail or Outlook and flag you as spam
it only takes a few for that whole
domain to kind of almost be flagged is
that right or or is that is that wrong
or where do you stand there that's
correct three out of a thousand which is
an abnormally small number of emails
being flagged to spam now this is
personal inboxes not business inboxes
and this is only for Gmail and Yahoo so
far they've kind of fired the first
shots at email marketing Outlook so far
seems to be okay uh from what I
currently understand now where I think
this gets really scary is for every
business who uses email for marketing
sending out new newsletters sending out
promotions to their active list to
people who have subscribed at one point
because typically people will subscribe
with personal emails I think most
businesses have like 30 or 40% personal
emails subscribed and those are the ones
that are likely to mark you as spam and
be counted as one of the three of 1,000
so it's definitely going to have to
change how not just cold emailers but
anyone with a business and with a list
markets to their list by email uh and
I'm happy to go through some of those
those ways that businesses can be
careful uh and need to be careful in
2024 yeah yeah yeah perhaps we can get
into that in a bit as as want to keep
this kind of more to cold email than
guess remarketing to list but we' got
time happy to jump in so quick one on
how it Stacks up appreciate cold email
is more of a top of the funnel activity
so you can building that awareness for
perhaps that people have never heard of
you before or your brand or your company
or the problem you fix it's a very much
early stage when you compare it for
something perhaps like SEO or paid
search or LinkedIn ads which quite often
someone already has a problem might be
solutionware it's it's a lot different
but how would you say it Stacks up to
compare to when when we compare it to
some of the more well-known kind of
marketing or Outreach channels right so
when we're we're talking to startups
you're talking to people who are trying
to generate top of funnel traffic for
the first time top of funnel meaning
people who don't know who you are they
don't know what you do they don't know
what you offer you need to get their
attention and tell them what it is that
you do so that they can buy your thing
there's a few different ways to get top
of funnel traffic you you mentioned a
couple good ones right there SEO is one
but can take years and thousands and
thousands of dollars to develop and
start ranking on on Google and in a
place where people are actually coming
to your website there's organic social
but again can take years to start
gaining traction building a following
driving traffic that way there's paid
ads you mentioned LinkedIn you can run
Google AdWords campaigns on search you
can run Facebook Tik Tok ads all of
those things cost a lot of money and
have a steep learning curve so typically
companies will will try these things
they'll throw some money at Facebook ads
throw some money at Tik Tok ads and then
realize oh man it's it's not converting
I'm just pouring money into a trash
can now with cold email it this is
honestly the way that I was able to
launch and build my agency and get it to
the point it is today which is $10
million in Revenue we have 65 employees
all started with cold email because one
you can hyper Target the exact person
that you want to reach assuming that you
sell B2B you can get one of these B2B
databases like Apollo or Zoom info and
filter by the exact person that you want
to reach get their email get their phone
number and then you can send them an
email for almost no money now yes
there's strategy to it how do you create
an email that they're actually going to
open and then be intrigued enough to
respond to how do you not get fil into
their Spam box or get uh blacklisted for
your entire domain there's a lot of
technical issues and strategy to
overcome there but if you do there is no
cheaper way to acquire the exact leads
that you need to sell
to yeah oh oh sounds good I mean in in
terms of when we when we talk about BCB
EMA is it something that in your opinion
is it cost effective for all types of
B2B organizations from say let's say a
service company that maybe offers
something for anywhere from a grand a
month upwards compared to maybe a I
don't know a SAS OR tech company that's
maybe got a really high average contract
value that's maybe kind of starting at
300 Grand a year or something like that
to invest in their software can it work
wonders for both of those massively
different organizations or is there a
bit of a sweet spot for where companies
should consider cold email so if we're
talking about B2B companies only whether
it's software Consulting marketing
Services yes it works for all of the
above there is a class of business that
I would say it doesn't quite apply to
and that's really low ticket B2B so for
example if you sell me a software that
costs $9 a month or $99 a year it might
not work for you because it it does take
work it does take some money to get to
scale with how many emails you need to
send to be effective but if you have
anything High ticket I'd say the minimum
thresholds $1,000 of value per CL client
then it will work for you we've worked
with companies raging from selling
fertilizer to Farms that were successful
with B2B email B2B software enterprise
software Consulting companies lots of
marketing agencies the messaging changes
the strategy changes but it all
works and I want to get into that we'll
dive into a bit of a step by step in a
minute because I've I've got a lot of uh
a lot of opinions myself so I'm sure
you're much you probably get tons of
cold email yourself running a business
as do I LinkedIn inails so it' be
interesting to know going of your
thoughts on how you basically stand out
from 99% of the trash that's literally a
wall of text talking about how great the
offer or how great their company is or
how many years they've been in business
that just sends business owners like you
and me to sleep so let's look at it from
a ground zero starting from scratch
perspective if a B2B tackle Service
Company is tuning in or maybe a marketer
or a founder and they're thinking sounds
good so far but how difficult is this to
set up I mean I've got limited
experience and knowledge in in B2B Cod
what what are some of the first points
that you should get stuck into Jay to
make it happen so you mentioned standing
out and then talking about the technical
aspects of getting started I'll I'll
just walk through start to finish what
it actually takes to build a successful
cold email campaign and I'm not going to
lie and say that it's really easy and
simple you just go push a few buttons
and you're sending cold emails directly
into inbox and generating leads it's I
would say like any other form of
marketing nothing is easy if you want to
be good at it because there are a lot of
other people who are really good at it
that you're competing against and you're
you're a business owner I'm a business
owner I get cold emailed all the time
most of it is trash and those are the
ones that land in my inbox the ones that
land in my spam are even more trash so
whether it's SEO whether it's Facebook
ads all of that stuff is technical
you're going to need to learn how to do
it correctly if you're going to win now
with that being said I learned how to do
cold emo within a couple of months and
that was me not having the resources
that I provide so I do think it's
attainable enough for the average
business owner to go figure out in a
couple of weeks and then going through
some trial and error to get it actually
fine-tuned and working just like
anything else but the steps that you
need to take in order to get cold email
to work is one the setup which can is
going to be the most technical part you
need to buy secondary domains that are
similar enough to your primary domain to
not confuse the recipient you need to
set up email sender accounts whether
that's with Outlook or G Suite or an
SMTP server you need to warm up those
email accounts using a warming tool like
instantly AI or War me IO there's a lot
of options available to you once you see
that those sender accounts are not going
to spam you're actually Landing in the
inbox then you can start figuring out
who you're going to email which is the
first non-technical part but the
strategy part and if you mess one of
these things up the whole thing's going
to break and you're going to wonder why
so all these things need to be perfectly
aligned and they need to be in working
order so working with an expert or lots
of trial and error is is what you're
going to go through so who you're going
to email let let's break down some of
those Jay before we we jump ahead um so
buying domains I'm guessing that's
fairly straight for we don't need to get
too much into that but you mentioned
they should be similar to your current
your primary domain but not the same
one yes so we don't want to use our
primary domain for the reasons we
mentioned earlier if a lot of people
mark them as spam and they will
especially if you're new and you don't
know what you're doing and you're
sending bad cold emails then your
primary domain is at risk of being
blacklisted and all of your company's
emails that are going to your clients
and each other can start going to spam
we don't want that this is a not not a
good place to be as a company so for
example
uh my company otter PR this is my
primary marketing agency if I'm buying
secondary domains that I want to look
similar enough to Otter PR I'm going to
get otu relations.com I'm gonna go get
to get otpb rail.com otter public.com uh
and some things to avoid in those
secondary domains are nets uh any any
other dot other than com IO is okay AI
is okay but those can be a little more
expensive avoid any hyphens or dashes in
your domain names uh so we found little
things that will affect deliverability
try and keep them to simple two or three
words and similar enough to your primary
domain nice and then in terms of kind of
this initial technical setup what kind
of pricing like how much does that cost
and then perhaps we can dive into a bit
more about how warming up domains works
just so Founders that are perhaps
bootstrapped can understand kind of
what's involved and I think my son just
walked in the room so you might have
heard that if you're tuning in he's just
left now so initial costs for getting
started with cold email buying a domain
12 bucks setting up the DNS records on a
domain this is the technical aspect you
need a dkim you need SPF records you
need a dmark record uh that stuff's
easily available online if you want to
go Google how to set these things up
it's relatively straightforward that's
all free then you need to a place to
send these emails from uh and this is
like a sender email account whether they
using G Suite or Outlook if you set it
all up on GoDaddy you can get the email
address for $2 per month so now you're
at 12 bucks for the domain $2 per month
for an Outlook sender email and then you
need a sending software like instantly
AI this I think you can get for 34 bucks
a month so we're still well under $100
and now we can send cold
emails decent so it's not going to break
the bank and in terms of that that
warmup flow is that difficult or should
we just apologies if you break it down
just then but is that something that you
can kind of set up with a third party
tool is that something you need to set
up yourself as the reason I ask is I'm
curious as well is it's cold email is
not something we have an agency of have
dived into massively so as well as some
of the audience I'm I'm learning as well
of course um so now a lot of the tools
are integrated they make it as easy as
possible so for example Outlook say
you're using in stantly AI which is the
platform that I use I'm one of their
official Partners you'll log into your
Outlook email right there on
instantly. and the sending and the
warming are all integrated so it's as
easy as clicking a button to getting
warm-up started and the way warm-up
works is it will exchange emails with
other uh inboxes within their ecosystem
and if those emails start to go to spam
or start to become unimportant those
inboxes in their ecosystem will remove
them from spam will mark them as
important and this trains the email
servers that this email sender is
sending good emails uh you do that for
long enough and you keep that running
and the chances of your emails going to
spam become lower and lower and this
also monitors the health of your inbox
so if they do start going to spam now
you know about it got it makes sense all
right so that that's the technical side
of things for around 100 bucks or so and
then we want to choose who it is we're
actually wanting to to reach out to so
I'm guessing that's very nuanced
depending on your offer your service who
your target market is if you're going
after the CEO if you're going after VPS
of marketing who's relevant I guess that
makes the decisions around what you
provide you're absolutely right uh it is
nuanced but there's a lot of
similarities that will apply to most
people uh you're going to want a good
B2B database and this can be probably
the most expensive part of sending C
emails is spending money on the DAT data
these companies like Apollo IO or Zoom
info spend a lot of money keeping their
databases clean you want to have emails
that are valid if you start sending
emails to invalid or old emails they
bounce and now your mailbox is at risk
so spend the money on the data we use
Apollo IO and then you'll simply figure
out who your Target demographic is we
typically like to email decision makers
uh we don't have a lot of success
emailing you know lower Downs unless
we're reaching out to Fortune 500
company and we're just trying to get the
email sent to the right place so we
typically go after decision makers we
typically won't go after gigantic
companies because they're obviously less
likely to open the email and and need
the email and reaching out to a CEO at a
thousanders company via cold email is
much more difficult to do uh so those
are the filters we typically use you'll
filter by industries that you sell to if
you sell a software product you can
filter by technologies that they're
using and a lot of these databases now
also have buying intent so they actually
know what these people are searching for
and what they're looking for which is
very very cool gotcha okay and I mean
that sounds reasonably straightforward
kind of working out who you want to sell
to not going to to twoo bigger
organization probably starting from the
top down and I'm guessing if you're
emailing kind of CEOs Founders that
aren't in huge corporation huge
corporations if what you're sending
resonates then even if it's not relevant
to them they might intro you a bit lower
down whether that's the marketing lead
or marketing direct or whoever's the
good fit for what the offer is providing
Okay so we've we've got that all set up
and rolling what what do we do next do
we send out emails do we do we work on
our message you work on our copyrighting
or what what's the next stage the next
is by far the most strategic and this is
where if you're going to get Consulting
do it and this is where people go wrong
and that's what you what do you actually
say to these people when you're
approaching them for the first time so
is if you're knocking on their door with
a pitch most of the time you're going to
get the door slammed in your face
because they're not interested you're
not sparking their interest so you've
got essentially one chance to get them
to open the email that chance is in the
subject line and the first line of that
email because that's all you see in the
preview so you have to get really
strategic as to not give too much away
in that little preview but also to to
spark their interest you want them to
open the email and you want it to be
relevant enough to what you say in the
email without getting the door slammed
in your face uh so there's a lot of
examples of that depending on what
message that you're saying but my what
what I preach in cold email and in that
first email is just give value and the
more value that you're able to give in
that first email that's relevant to the
person you're sending it to now you've
built some Rapport now maybe they'll
book a meeting maybe the second or third
time that you email them they they will
book a meeting they will reply so I
spend a lot of money on lead magnets for
our company and I'll typically lead my
called email sequence with a very
powerful lead magnet gotcha so let's
take one step back in terms of because
like you said probably the most
important thing is actually getting your
email opened in a sea of spammy cold
emails terrible Outreach and where most
of us are almost toned deaf and they
think oh for God's sake another cold
email straight to delete or archive
whatever you go to what are some tips to
that you found effective to actually
Peak people's interest and I don't know
if you've got a framework or a formula
for that subject line and like you say
if you're on on your mobile you're only
going to see a small snapshot of that
subject line and then maybe one line of
of text underneath just on your small
Mobile screen right so um any Frameworks
with tips best prti best practices for
actually getting those emails opened so
best practices 2024 is to use
personalization now there's been a lot
of spammy obvious personalization that
people use like in inserting a company
name or a city or an industry into the
email everybody knows what that is but
now in 2024 with AI tools we can really
simply run formulas
on the company's information that we
have to generate just personalized words
I like to use their competitor name so
for example research Sam Dunning and
come up with a single competitor for Sam
Dunning that he probably knows the name
of and now I can reference that
competitor in the subject line or in the
first line of that email if it's a name
that's familiar and relevant to you the
chances of you opening that email are up
90% because you think I actually took
the time to write that email now there's
bad AI too yeah Sam I saw you went to
University of Louis Louisiana you know
go go mascot name that's bad AI
everybody knows what that is you want to
get creative and you want to be relevant
uh so that would be my framework is use
use I call it elegant AI one word maybe
two words that are relevant to that
person competitors typically work pretty
well and I'm guessing there's tools like
you mentioned AI tools that can help us
with that I we can put in maybe we've
made our Target list of company
decisionmakers and their businesses and
we can feed that into a tool and then
they can perhaps list out a top
competitor that then goes into that
subject line is that is that right yeah
there's tools that can do it make that
make it really easy for you instantly AI
again the all it's an one sending
platform they've got a little brain
button right in their campaign leads you
can click and run a prompt on those
leads I actually built a lot of those
prompts myself like the competitor one
so you can literally just push the brain
select the prompt and it will insert
that column for you with all of the
competitors it'll run the AI prompt on
on all of those all of those leads and
spit out the competitors it's it's
pretty incredible and very
easy any others like the competitors is
of course nice because that's going to
be top of mind I think that would Peak
my Cur curiosity if I saw one of my top
competitors there i' think yeah what the
heck's that I'm going to click through
any any other kind
of ideas like that that people aren't
going to be toned deaf to that that's
maybe worked effectively for you when it
comes to getting those emails opened
yeah and one of the things that I use
when I'm reaching out to podcasts uh to
get myself scheduled on podcasts is I
will upload the list of
podcasts and I'll I'll run a prompt come
up with a title of a podcast based on
what I do and what they like to talk
about on their podcast and it will
create a title and it will insert that
into the first sentence of that email so
in terms of framework I'd say my
framework is to use elegant AI run one
of these prompts to come up with a
sentence or a word that's unique but get
creative the more creative you are the
better this will work for you back in
the day cold email that the the subject
line that was working the best subject
line in the world was question Sam or
question Jay right in the subject line
and it worked people would open it at
like a 70 or 80% open rate uh we have a
in our human nature we want to answer
questions we want to know want to
respond to questions so if we asked the
question a simple question in the
subject line the spark curiosity it
would get opened nowadays anything I
teach uh like the competitor thing is
something that I teach within my course
I fear that within a month and longer
works because everybody will know what
it is so my call to action and my
framework is to think about how you can
use AI creatively based on who you're
reaching out to like the podcast host
thing if you're reaching out to
YouTubers maybe come up with a their top
competitor YouTuber or a YouTuber that
they might admire or that's right under
them because they're probably familiar
with that YouTuber so think about how
you can use AI creatively it's almost
like a pattern interrupt right so
absolutely trying to think of something
that everyone else isn't doing but you
know it's going to spark some kind of
Interest like you said there whe whether
that's a top competitor whether that is
something relevant to to them right now
but not something generic and obvious
cool so that that's how to get attention
once you've gotten their attention you
need to convert them uh so my framework
for the first email is spend a lot of
time and money on a lead magnet give
them the lead magnet and hope it's
relevant to who you're emailing if you
do that and they find Value in the lead
magnet you're in
and when we say how how are we
positioning that just so we can
visualize or imagine it are we saying
like hey whatever the name is here's
something I made for you or is it a bit
more in depth or how does that usually
look
like uh so it'll depend a little bit on
who you're emailing so for example if
I'm emailing a
podcaster uh I might say I made this
video for you about how I booked X X Y
and Z name on my podcast big names maybe
it's Ed melet Gary v um here's the exact
framework sequence that I use to book
them on my show uh here it is for free
download it uh you don't even need to go
to an opt-in page just give it to them
because you're going to go asking for a
meeting on the second or third email so
that the lead magnet has to be highly
tailored to who you're giving it to when
I'm trying to generate leads for my lead
generation agency otter leads AI I'll
typically offer them my uh 8 million
emails that they can start with or a
free lead generation course that I've
developed and if they're interested in
using cold outbound lead generation then
chances are they're going to take that
lead magnet like it and when I go asking
them for a meeting on the second or
third email they're much more likely to
book that meeting because I've given
them some value in the first in the
first email good it so basically giving
away something that we think is useful
to them up front and correct I'm
guessing that could range quite a bit
right from let you say a video
maybe a Playbook maybe something else
that's I guess tailored and you know
it's got insights tips ideas how-to is
that's kind of personalized to that to
that company or what's going to help
them make some kind of progress in their
business yeah and the the range of value
that you can offer on a lead magnet is
so wide for example ebooks no one's
going to read your ebook um I don't
think most people find Value in ebooks
uh so I would put that like the bottom
of the totem pole right next to like
here's a video to watch is you're asking
them to consume a lot of time and you're
probably not teaching them anything new
versus some of the lead magnets that we
offer in our PR agency like I'd like to
interview you on a podcast we literally
built and developed a podcast called
scaling secrets that's hosted by three
people that we employ and we pay $100
per interview to uh to interview this is
the only way that we're able to get CEOs
and decision makers at 100 plus employee
companies onto a sales call is we start
by interviewing them on a podcast this
actually works really well but they get
a lot of value because we produce it
professionally uh we post it on all our
social media platforms it costs us a lot
of money to offer that lead magnet uh so
that would be an example of a really
high value lead magnet got it what about
a company that's perhaps on the other
end of the scale that's maybe just
starting out any recommendations perhaps
Founders that a little more strapped of
cash yeah I'd say you can start at the
worst lead magnet is still better than a
cold pitch so if you could offer a free
course maybe it's five to 10 videos that
you've created this is a really cheap
efficient way to offer like a mid-tier
lead magnet and you can host a course
basically for free now using something
like go high level or one of these uh
low low cost course Builders you can go
on appsumo and find one so much better
than a video much better than an ebook
will cost you almost nothing I would
start with course got it all right
that's email one how many emails are we
sending and what what comes up next I'll
typically cap it at five and it'll
depend how many lead magnets I have so
email one value lead magnet email 2 I'll
ask him for a call it'll be a bump it'll
be in the same email thread as that
first email if they still don't book a
call they still don't respond then email
three more value I'll feed them my
second lead magnet then email four and
five also a bump trying to get the
meeting if you only have one lead magnet
cap it three you don't want to C keep
emailing somebody hey do you want to
book a meeting so you still haven't
replied or scheduled a meeting let's
let's get that meeting and then again
and again because eventually they're
going to mark you as spam or unsubscribe
if you can't keep offering value I would
cap your sequins at three emails got it
okay so take into account I guess how
much free that's actually valuable
that you can send these proc if you got
a ton of awesome free then keep
going I mean if you can give them nine
awesome lead magnets or pieces of value
in a row then keep it coming until they
reply or book a meeting but make sure
that you don't keep emailing them after
they unsubscribe or after they reply
because then you can get yourself into
some trouble yeah yeah and of course
this is going to be rough but what's the
following this format that we've just
been talking about what's the rough kind
of open rate say we sent a thousand and
perhaps we should have talked about how
many we should be sending a day so maybe
you can metion that in a sec um what's
the rough kind of open rate and then end
meeting rate from your
experience so the open rate that you
should aim for and what most good called
emailers get are around 60 to 80% opens
if you're under 40% your emails are
likely going to spam or there's
something wrong with them so they can
end up in your inbox but they can have a
big yellow flag when people open it that
this looks suspicious and you'll never
know unless you see those low open rates
so work with with your subject lines and
your first lines work with your
targeting uh if you're emailing only
people you know CEOs at 2,000 plus
companies you're going to have bad open
rates so there's a lot of things that
can fluctuate that open rate but you
should aim for around 60 to 80% now if
you're going for and then you have to
decide whether you're going to go for a
reply or go for a click uh so if you're
including a lot of links in your emails
you might not track your reply rate so
much you just want people to click and
open your link uh so make sure you're
tracking your your link clicks and reply
but those should be somewhere between 2
and 10% based on how much value you're
offering and at what point in the
sequence are
they got it and as a starting point when
it comes to because I imagine this could
be quite daunting for people that have
never done this before once they've
perhaps done the technical things we
talked about initially got their domains
made sure they're similar to their main
domain but not the primary domain set up
several email accounts warm them all up
making sure they're Landing in their
inbox um got to worked out who they're
targeting who those decision makers are
who those dream client companies are
started crafting subject lines to get
those opens put together their messages
put together lead
magnets but then what what should we
what is a sensible amount that's
achievable when it comes to kind of
working out a daily send rate and
setting yourself realistic
goals that's a good question because
even the best cold emailer I mean it
still depends on volume you need to have
enough volume to make it work to make it
financially make sense so we send about
100,000 cold emails per day when you're
just starting out I always say start
with a thousand look at your look at
your stats look at your open rates look
at your apply rates and then scale up
from there a good company running a cold
email machine should do about 10,000
emails per day so you have to have a big
enough lead pool to be able to do that
as well but 10,000 a day should give you
at least one to three meetings per day
uh which will keep your sales team
relatively busy and will be a good
income source for your business and is
that realistic though for someone that's
just into it like if we if we're perhaps
talking smaller scale and I I'm grilling
you a bit AJ but um if it was me I'd
imagine 10,000 sounds sounds a fair bit
as a as a point a maybe six months down
the line when I'm kind of really used to
the system or perhaps my team are is
there is there a smaller step that we
could take before that yeah I'd say
start with a thousand a day a thousand a
day is I think 20 email addresses which
really isn't absurd uh that's couple
hundred bucks a month and cost uh you'll
have to have access to some data uh
that's like a good realistic starting
point and you'll have meetings generated
from that it should generate you sales
every every week or every month uh and
you can scale up from there it's very
easy to scale up and it does sound
intimidating when we break it all down
but if we were to talk about SEO if we
were to talk about ads and all the
things involved in doing that too you
need a pixel you need to set up
conversion events you need to go through
and make sure you're row ass and you're
and the numbers all make sense like it's
any any form of marketing that you want
to be good at and want to do properly
does take some work and is technical
cold email is powerful because you can
hit exactly the right person there's
nothing else you can do to hit exactly
the right person and you can scale it
relatively affordably me you can get $1
,000 emails per day out for about a
thousand bucks a month I mean that's a
lot of Impressions it's interesting this
is going off the tangent a bit but
before we wrap things up I'm seeing a
lot of folks on LinkedIn because I
follow a lot of in the B2B marketing and
sales space and a lot of guys are saying
like they're not even getting sales reps
to do B2B cold email anymore they're
getting someone in house that's purely
technical so B2B sales don't even T
touch the email at all they focus on
making dials cold dials maybe nurturing
inbound leads LinkedIn Outreach whatever
is relevant to their job role they have
someone in house that's purely technical
Cod email they manage the whole cycle so
the the Reps don't even get their hands
on it and they just simply feed them the
leads when they come in do you think
that's the way things are going that's
exactly the way that we do it at our
company I should I don't think the rep
should have any any hand in the cold
email uh I think it's a waste of their
time because you can automate the entire
thing very very effectively especially
with AI you want to personalize the
emails with sentences uh based on that
person run an AI prompt there's no
reason for human beings that are that
you're paying to do sales and closing
should be in there emailing people or
even cold calling people for that matter
uh we strictly do the we do the exact
same thing we run it autonomously and we
we pack our sales team with calls using
this
method sounds like a dream for a sales
rep yeah I think they're very happy
working at our company I I honestly I
can't imagine sales reps you know know
cold calling and cold emailing like one
by one all day that sounds monotonous it
sounds tedious I to my call to action to
those people is learn how to set these
things up for your company you can keep
your own calendar you know packed on
autopilot so you can spend more time
closing on the
phone got it and with that in mind we've
covered a fair bit is there anything
that we should avoid or any any kind of
big mistakes that you'll often see where
people are doing cold emails that
perhaps haven't covered too yeah uh and
this this will vary by country actually
EU is a little bit stricter but there's
laws in place to protect from spam and
you can get in pretty big trouble
financially uh for breaking these laws
so the can spam Act is the one that
applies most to us in America I think it
applies in the EU as well but there's
certain things you need to include in
all of your cold emails to protect
yourself from large fines so this is
probably the biggest mistake and I'm
glad you brought this up can spam act so
certain things that you need to have in
all of your Cod emails one you can't it
needs to be clear that it's a marketing
message you can't say you know I I've
got your mom she's she's locked in a
room or it's on fire open this cold
email obviously you'll get that email
open but now you're breaking the law
good open rate but great open rate
probably not great not a great
conversion rate and that that'll get you
in some trouble uh you need to have an
OP a way to opt out of your called
emails and you need to respect that opt
out rate now in 2024 with these updates
saying reply St to op out is no longer
good enough you need to have a one-click
op out on all of your cold emails and
every email sender will have an easy way
to do this some even mandate it uh to
add that oneclick unsubscribe link uh
the other thing that you need to have in
your cold emails that a lot of people
don't do uh this is massively overlooked
and we actually had a big scare for not
doing this and that's including a
business mailing address and all of your
cold emails
so you need to have some kind of mailing
address at the bottom of your called
emails we actually emailed a lawyer one
time and her job was Prosecuting cold
emailers and we did not have an address
in the footer of our cold email and she
sent an email reporting us to our domain
host to the governing body that that I
guess prosecutes for this and I freaked
out I was talking to my my co-founder
like we need a lawyer up we're going to
get in some trouble nothing came out of
it but after that you better believe
every single email that we sent out had
an address at the bottom yeah so follow
a few simple rules and and you're good
nice one man look Jay really appreciate
you coming on thanks very much for
sharing with myself the audience a
breakdown of making cold email work from
a B2B setting appreciate your time sir
so with that I want to thank you once
again but please do tell everyone tuning
in more about how they can learn from
you connect with you and if they want to
get in touch sounds good and thank you
for having me Sam this was a blast if
you're listening and you want to learn
more about cold email uh I'll I'll put a
link at my website leadjen j.com you can
go backs Sam and you'll be able to get
my free course and the 8 million leads
to start cold emailing if you don't have
much money you can start there and
follow me on on YouTube it's Le genj you
can hit me up on Instagram lead Jen J
let me know that you found me here and
hook you up with some cool stuff uh and
thanks again Sam this was an absolute
blast I hope I did a good job providing
some value and you seemed curious so
that's a good sign yeah man got got to
know those ins and outs like I say we
we've not done a cold eart it's one of
the main channels we haven't done for
our own agency so I'm I'm generally
curious as I'm I'm sure the audience
have been too so I appreciate you
sharing your wisdom um we'll put all of
those links Below in the show notes on
Apple Spotify YouTube Etc as always if
you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating or review on when ever you're
tuning in or subscribe goes a long way
and if you want to catch more free Bay
playbooks podcasts resources head over
to Sam d.org and we shall catch you on
the next one for more nobs B2B marketing
tips to grow your revenue and grow your
business appreciate you all tuning in